HIS DEPRESSION.
THE LATEST IN THE SEARCH FOR
MOTIVE BEHIND THE APPARENTLY
DELIBERATE PLANE CRASH IN THE
FRENCH ALPS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD:
IN AN INTERVIEW WITH CHARLIE
ROSE, SYRIA'S PRESIDENT DISPUTES
NEW CHARGES HIS MILITARY USED
CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND TALKS OF A
POSSIBLE DIALOGUE WITH THE U.S.
SENATE MINORITY LEADER HARRY
REID ANNOUNCES HE PLANS TO
RETIRE.
WHAT COULD IT MEAN FOR DEMOCRATS
IN CONGRESS?
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THIS AND THE
REST OF THE WEEK'S NEWS.
AND, TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AFTER
FIRST TAKING HIS STEPS TO THE
STAGE, CHOREOGRAPHER MARK MORRIS
LEAPS ONTO TELEVISION.
>> I WAS COMPELLED TO MAKE MY
DANCERS BEHAVE AS NOT JUST
PEOPLE BUT ANIMALS AND SHOUL SHH
RUBBERY AND FIREPLACES.
SO THE DANCES ARE THE LIVING
DECOR AND WONDERFUL CHARACTERS.
P
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S "PBS
NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: NO SUICIDE NOTE WAS
FOUND IN THE SEARCH OF THE HOMES
OF THE GERMAN WINGS CO-PILOT,
BUT THERE WAS EVIDENCE HE WAS
HIDING AN ILLNESS FROM HIS
EMPLOYERS.
IT'S BELIEVED THE CO-PILOT,
ANDREAS LUBITZ, DELIBERATELY
STEERED FLIGHT 9525 INTO THE
FRENCH ALPS ON TUESDAY, KILLING
EVERYONE ON BOARD.
NEIL CONNERY OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS HAS THIS REPORT
FROM THE CO-PILOT'S FAMILY HOME
IN MONTABAUR, GERMANY.
>> Reporter: BEHIND THE
ENERGETIC AND HEALTHY
APPEARANCE, WHAT TURMOIL COULD
HAVE DRIVEN ANDREAS LUBITZ TO DO
WHAT HE DID.
MORE CLUES UNCOVERED ABOUT HIS
MENTAL STATE ARE STARTING TO
SURFACE.
DOCUMENTS WITH MEDICAL
INFORMATION DISCOVERED AT THE
HOUSE HE SHARED WITH PARENTS ARE
HELPING INVESTIGATORS TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND HIS ACTIONS.
AT HIS FLAT IN DUESSELDORF,
WHERE HE SOMETIMES STAYED, TORN
UP SICK NOTES FOR LUBITZ ARE
HELPING PROSECUTORS BUILD UP A
PICTURE OF THE 27 YEAR OLD.
THE FACT THAT A RIPPED UP
CURRENT SICK NOTE, WHICH COVERED
THE DAY OF THE CRASH WAS FOUND
SUPPORTS THE ASSUMPTION THAT HE
KEPT HIS ILLNESS SECRET FROM HIS
EMPLOYER, THIS PROSECUTOR SAYS.
NEIGHBORS SAY LUBITZ APPEARED TO
BE IN EXCELLENT PHYSICAL SHAPE.
BUT EVIDENCE IS GROWING OF SOME
OTHER PROBLEM.
IN HIS FLAT, ALONG WITH TORN UP
SICK NOTES, INVESTIGATORS FOUND
MEDICAL DOCUMENTS RELATING TO AN
EXISTING ILLNESS, WHICH THEY SAY
SHOWED HE WAS RECEIVING
APPROPRIATE MEDICAL TREATMENT
FOR.
AND IT'S BEEN REPORTED HIS
PILOTS' LICENSE REQUIRED HIM TO
HAVE SPECIFIC REGULAR MEDICAL
EXAMINATIONS.
AT THE LOCAL FLYING CLUB WHERE
LUBITZ WAS A MEMBER, THEY'RE IN
DISBELIEF.
ERNST MUELLER TELLS ME NONE OF
THIS MAKES SENSE.
>> IT'S STRANGE.
THIS ISN'T AN EVERY DAY EVENT
THAT SOMEONE KILLS THEMSELVES
AND TAKES 149 OTHERS WITH THEM.
SOME THINGS HAPPEN.
BUT TO TAKE INNOCENT PEOPLE WITH
YOU LIKE THIS IT'S JUST
TERRIBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE REGIONAL
MAYOR TOLD ME HIS THOUGHTS ARE
WITH ALL THOSE SUFFERING.
"WE MOURN WITH ALL THE FAMILIES,
INCLUDING THE FAMILY OF THE
COPILOT," HE SAYS.
"BUT THERE'S NO PROOF SO FAR
THAT THE MEDIA REPORTS ARE WHAT
REALLY
THERE'S BEEN MORE POLICE
CTIVAITY AT LUBITZ'S PARENTS'
HOME, WITH ITEMS TAKEN AWAY AS
THIS INVESTIGATION CONTINUES.
AS THE HOURS PASS, MORE DETAILS
CONTINUE TO EMERGE ABOUT THE
REAL ANDREAS LUBITZ.
>> Woodruff: LUBITZ LOCKED
HIMSELF IN THE COCKPIT ALONE
BEFORE THE CRASH.
THAT PROMPTED EUROPE'S AVIATION
SAFETY AGENCY TODAY TO RECOMMEND
ALL AIRLINES ADOPT THE TWO-
PERSON COCKPIT RULE AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
U.S. RULES ALREADY REQUIRE IT.
SAUDI ARABIA LAUNCHED A NEW WAVE
OF AIRSTRIKES TODAY AGAINST
SHIITE HOUTHI REBELS IN YEMEN.
THEY TARGETED A NORTHERN
STRONGHOLD, AN OIL-RICH AREINA
THE EAST, AND THE REBEL-
CONTROLLED CAPITAL.
THE SAUDI PRESS AGENCY RELEASED
THIS VIDEO SHOWING SAUDI ARABIAN
AIR FORCE JETS BOMBING AN
AIRPORT TODAY INANA SA.
A SPOKESMAN FOR THE OPERATION
SAID THE SAUDI-LED COALITION IS
PREPARED TO TAKE FURTHER
MILITARY ACTION IF WARRANTED.
>> ( translated ): THERE ARE NO
PLANS AT THIS STAGE FOR GROUND
FORCES OPERATIONS.
BUT IF THE NEED ARISES, THE
SAUDI GROUND FORCES AND THOSE OF
THE FRIENDS ARE ADY REAND WILL
REPEL ANY AGGRESSION.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, FOUR
EGYPTIAN WARSHIPS ARE EN ROUTE
TO THE COAST OF YEMEN TO SECURE
THE STRATEGIC SEA PASSAGE OFF
ITS COAST.
IN SOMALIA, AL-SHABAAB MILITANTS
STORMED A HOTEL POPULAR WITH
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND
FOREIGNERS TODAY, KILLING AT
LEAST NINE PEOPLE.
THE INCIDENT HAPPENED IN THE
HEART OF THE CAPITAL, MOGADISHU.
SOMALI POLICE SAID A SUICIDE
BOMBER DETONATED A CAR FILLED
WITH EXPLOSIVES AT THE HOTEL'S
GATE.
THAT ALLOWED MILITANT GUNMEN TO
ENTER THE BUILDING WHERE THEY
EXCHANGED FIRE WITH SECURITY
FORCES.
AN UNKNOWN NUMBER OF PEOPLE ARE
STILL TRAPPED INSIDE.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, THE UNIVERSITY OF
OKLAHOMA ANNOUNCED IT IS
DISCIPLINING 25 MORE STUDENTS
LINKED TO THE SINGING OF A
RACIST SONG CAPTURED ON VIDEO.
THE SCHOOL'S PRESIDENT, DAVID
BOREN, SAID TWO MEMBERS OF
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON FRATERNITY
HAVE NOW BEEN EXPELLED.
THE STUDENTS LEARNED THE SONG
DURING THE FRATERNITY'S NATIONAL
LEADERSHIP CRUISE FOUR YEARS
AGO.
BOREN SAID HE TOOK ACTION SO
EVERYONE CAN MOVE ON.
>> OUR PURPOSE HERE IS NOT TO
BRAND PEOPLE FOR LIFE.
OUR PURPOSE IS NOT TO FORGIVE.
OUR PURPOSE IS TO LEARN LESSONS
AND BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE AND THEN
MOVE FORWARD WITH OUR LIVES.
>> Woodruff: BOREN SAID THAT
AFTER INVESTIGATING OVER 160
PEOPLE, IT BECAME EVIDENT THAT
THE SONG WAS "PART OF THE
INSTITUTIONAL CULTURE OF THE
CHAPTER".
THE S.A.E. CHAPTER AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA HAS SINCE
BEEN DISBANDED.
REPUBLICANS PUSHED A BALANCED-
BUDGET PLAN THROUGH THE SENATE
AFTER A MARATHON, OVERNIGHT
SESSION.
IT PASSED NEARLY ALONG PARTY
LINES AND FOLLOWS ONE PASSED BY
THE HOUSE EARLIER THIS WEEK.
THE PROPOSED BUDGET SHRINKS
FEDERAL DEFICITS BY MORE THAN $5
TRILLION OVER THE NEXT DECADE
MOSTLY BY CUTTING HEALTH CARE
AND OTHER BENEFITS.
THE SENATE'S TOP DEMOCRAT, HARRY
REID, ANNOUNCED HE WON'T BE
SEEKING RE-ELECTION NEXT YEAR.
HIS PARTY LOST THE SENATE
MAJORITY IN THE 2014 MIDTERM
ELECTIONS.
REID HAS SERVED NEVADA FOR FIVE
TERMS.
THE 75-YEAR-OLD RECENTLY
SUFFERED AN EXERCISING ACCIDENT
THAT LEFT HIM WITH INJURIES TO
HIS FACE AND EYE.
IN A VIDEO STATEMENT RELEASED BY
HIS OFFICE, REID SAID THAT HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH HIS DECISION.
>> WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
DEMOCRATS TAKE CONTROL OF THE
SENATE AGAIN.
AND I FEEL IT IS INAPPROPRIATE
FOR ME TO SOAK UP ALL THOSE
RESOURCES ON ME WHEN I COULD BE
DEVOTING THOSE RESOURCES TO THE
CAUCUS, AND THAT'S WHAT I INTEND
TO DO.
>> Woodruff: IN A STATEMENT,
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED REID "A
FIGHTER" AND SAID THE SENATE
WON'T BE THE SAME WITHOUT HIM.
REID LATER ENDORSED NEW YORK
SENATOR CHUCK SCHUMER TO SUCCEED
HIM AS MINORITY LEADER.
A NEW PLAN TO FIGHT THE THREAT
OF DRUG-RESISTANT BACTERIA WAS
UNVEILED BY THE WHITE HOUSE
TODAY.
THE PROGRAM AIMS TO CURTAIL THE
OVERUSE OF ANTIBIOTICS, WHICH
CAN LEAD TO NEW STRAINS OF
UNTREATABLE, DEADLY SO-CALLED
"SUPERBUGS," AND TO RAMP UP
RESEARCH INTO ALTERNATIVE
MEDICATIONS.
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION ESTIMATE THAT
SUPERBUGS CAUSE ABOUT 23,000
DEATHS AND TWO MILLION ILLNESSES
IN THE U.S. EACH YEAR.
FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIR JANET
YELLEN SIGNALED DURING A SPEECH
IN SAN FRANCISCO THERE COULD BE
AN INTEREST RATE HIKE COMING
"SOMETIME THIS YEAR".
T SHBUE ADDED IT WOULD BE
"GRADUAL".
WALL STREET HAD LITTLE TIME TO
DIGEST THE NEWS AND STOCKS BROKE
A FOUR-DAY LOSING STREAK.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 34 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,712.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 28 POINTS, AND
THE S-AND-P 500 PICKED UP FIVE
POINTS.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW, NDAQAS
AND S-AND-P ALL DROPPED MORE
THAN 2%.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR ASSAD
REJECTS CHARGES THAT HIS
MILITARY USED CHEMICAL WEAPONS;
A JURY FINDS GENDER WAS NOT A
FACTOR IN A SILICON VALLEY
DISCRIMINATION CASE;
A PREVIEW OF NIGERIA'S
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS;
HOW SHARK SKIN COULD BE A
MISSING LINK IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST DISEASES KNOWN AS
SUPERBUGS;
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS;
AND, CHOREOGRAPHER MARK MORRIS
LEAPS ONTO TELEVISION WITH ONE
OF HIS MOST ICONIC WORKS OF
DANCE.
>> Woodruff: THE WAR IN SYRIA
ENTERED ITS FIFTH YEAR EARLIER
THIS MONTH, AND DESPITE
PREDICTIONS YEARS AGO OF HIS
DEMISE, THE COUNTRY'S PRESIDENT,
BASHAR AL-ASSAD, IS STILL
STANDING IN DAMASCUS.
PBS HOST AND CBS NEWS ANCHOR
CHARLIE ROSE TRAVELED TO THE
SYRIAN CAPITAL AND TALKED TO THE
LEADER YESTERDAY ABOUT THE WAR
AND THE REGION'S INSTABILITY.
ASSAD TOLD ROSE THAT HE IS OPEN
TO A DIALOGUE WITH THE UNITED
STATES, AND ALSO DISMISSED
ACCUSATIONS THAT HIS ARMY HAS
USED CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> THE WEAPONS OF WAR THAT HAVE
BEEN USED THAT MOST PEOPLE LOOK
DOWN ON, ONE IS CHLORINE GAS.
THEY BELIEVE IT HAS BEEN USED
HERE.
THEY SAID THERE IS EVIDENCE OF
THAT AND THEY WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
THE RIGHT TO INSPECT TO SEE
WHERE IT'S COMING FROM.
AS YOU KNOW, BARREL BOMBS HAVE
BEEN USED AND THEY COME FROM
HELICOPTERS, AND THE ONLY PEOPLE
WHO HAVE HELICOPTERS IS THE
SYRIAN ARMY.
SO THOSE TWO ACTS OF WAR WHICH
SOCIETY LOOKS DOWN ON
AS BARBARIC ACTS.
>> THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT.
FIRST OF ALL, THEY CAN BE BOUGHT
ANYWHERE.
>> THEY CAN'T BE WEAPONNIZED.
ETH NOT EFFECTIVE.
IT'S NOT MILITARY.
THAT'S SELF-EVIDENT.
IF IT WAS EFFECTIVE, THE
TERRORISTS WOULD HAVE USED THIS
ON A LARGER SCALE.
BECAUSE IT IS NOT EFFECTIVE,
IT'S NOT USED.
>> WHY NOT LET SOMEONE COME AND
INSPECT TO SEE WHETHER IT'S BEEN
USED.
>> WE ASK YOU TO COME AND
INVESTIGATE BUT LOGICALLY IT
CANNOT BE USED AS MILITARY.
THIS IS PART OF P PROPAGANDA
BECAUSE, AS YOU KNOW, IN THE
MEDIA, WHEN IT BLEEDS, IT LEADS,
AND THEY WILL LOOK FOR SOMETHING
WHICH BLEEDS.
>> Woodruff: SOME OF THE
INTERVIEW CAN BE SEEN ON SUNDAY
NIGHT ON CBS'S "60 MINUTES."
ALL OF IT WILL APPEAR MONDAY
EVENING ON PBS'S CHARLIE ROSE.
TO TELL US MORE ABOUT HIS
EXPERIENCE INTERVIEWING
PRESIDENT ASSAD, CHARLIE ROSE
JOINS ME NOW.
CHARLIE, WELCOME BACK AFTER WHAT
SOUNDS LIKE A PRETTY GRUELING
TRIP OVER AND BACK IN JUST A
MATTER OF A DAY OR TWO.
WHY DO YOU THINK PRESIDENT ASSAD
AGREED TO TALK RIGHT NOW?
WHAT DO YOU THINK THEY'RE RIGHT
GET ACROSS?
>> HE BELIEVES NOW THAT THE RISE
OF I.S.I.S. HAS CAUSED THE
UNITED STATES AND OTHERS TO MAKE
HIM NOT THE REPORT, THE
OVERTHROW OF HIM OR HIS
DEPARTURE FROM POWER, BUT
SOMEHOW BUILDING AN EFFORT
AGAINST I.S.I.S.
SO I THINK HE THINKS IT'S TIMELY
THERE.
SO I THINK HE WANTS TO REACH OUT
AND SAY CIRCUMSTANCES HAVEI
CHANGED AND I'M OPEN TO A
CONVERSATION.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU WERE
TELLING ME HE'S ABOUT TO HAVE
TALKS IN MOSCOW, THAT THE
RUSSIANS COULD PLAY A KEY ROLE
HERE.
THE>> RUSSIANS INDEED COULD
PLAY A KEY ROLE HERE.
THEY HAVE A GREAT INTEREST IN AT
LEAST SYRIA AND HAVE HAD AS DO
THE IRANIANS AND THE IRANIANS
HAVE GIVEN A LOT OF SUPPORT AND
IN FACT HESBOLLAH CAME IN AND
REALLY SAVED THE DAY FOR HIM AT
A TIME HIS REGIME WAS TOTTERING.
HE SAID HE'S OPTIMISTIC ABOUT
THE POSSIBILITIES COMING OUT OF
THE STATEMENTS SECRETARY KERRY
STARTED, THIS NEW ROUND OF
INTENSE FOCUS.
>> Woodruff: CHARLIE, IT ALSO
SOUNDS LIKE HE WORKED REALLY
HARD TO DEFEND HIMSELF WHEN YOU
ASKED ABOUT THE CHLORINE GAS,
WHEN YOU ASKED HIM ABOUT THE
BARREL BOMBS.
AT ONE POINT, HE SAID, WE
WOULDN'T BE TRYING TO KILL OUR
OWNEOP PLE WHEN WE'RE TRYING TO
WIN HEARTS AND MINDS.
DOESN'T THAT FLY IN THE FACE OF
OBJECTIVE EVIDENCE?
>> IT DOES, ABSOLUTELY.
MOST OF THE CIVILIAN CASUALTIES
HAVE COME FROM NOT, SAY, ICYBUT
HAVE COME FROM OTHER MEANS AND,
CLEARLY, THERE ARE SERIOUS
INTERNATIONAL ACCUSATIONS
AGAINST HIS GOVERNMENT AND SOME
PEOPLE WHO, WHEN YOU SAY
ACCUSATIONS, SAY THAT'S CRAZY.
WHY IS IT AN ACCUSATION?
IT'S A FACT.
BARREL BOMBS HAVE BEEN DROPPED.
HE'S THE ONLY PERSON, HIS ARMY,
WHO HAS HELICOPTERS AND THE
CAPACITY TO DROP THESE BARREL
BOMBS.
HE GOT INTO THIS DISCUSSION WITH
ME THAT WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
BARREL BOMBS MEAN AND I SAID
IT'S A BARREL WITH THINGS THAT
EXPLODE AND KILL A LOT OF
CIVILIANS.
HE ALSO IN AN INTERESTING WAY
HAS ENORMOUS THINGS TO SAY THAT
ARE CRITICAL OF SAUDI ARABIA
WHICH HAS BEEN SUPPORTING PEOPLE
ON THE GROUND AGAINST HIM AS THE
QATARIS.
HE WAS ACCUSE TORE AGAINST
TURKEY BECAUSE A LOT OF THE
PEOPLE COMING INTO SYRIA TO
FIGHT AGAINST HIM HE BELIEVES
COME THROUGH THE TURKISH BORDER.
HE TALKED ABOUT ERDOGAN, THE
PRESIDENT OF TURKEY, AS BEING,
IN HIS OWN WAY, VERY MUCH AKIN
TO THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
>> Woodruff: LAST THING,
CHARLIE, HOW DID YOU FIND HIM
PERSONALLY?
AND HOW DID YOU FIND DAMASCUS?
YOU HAD TO MAKE THE TRIP FROM
ACROSS THE BORDER.
>> AS WE DROVE FROM TWO OTHER
CBS COLLEAGUES FROM BEIRUT, TOOK
US ABOUT 2.5 HOURS TO MAKE THE
TRIP YOU FELT DIDN'T HEAR AS
MANY EXPLOSIONS IN DAMASCUS AS I
DID IN 2013 WHEN I WAS THERE.
IT WAS QUITE -- YOU SEE PEOPLE
OUTSIDE ENGAGED IN THE PARKS,
YOU KNOW, TALKING TO EACH OTHER.
AT THE SAME TIME, YOU SEE
MILITARY PEOPLE EVERYWHERE.
YOU KNOW THAT THERE IS A KIND OF
ON-ALERT CIRCUMSTANCE IN
DAMASCUS.
>> Woodruff: CHARLIE ROSE,
WE'LL LOOK FOR THE ENTIRE
INTERVIEW ON CHARLIE ROSE ON PBS
ON MONDAY NIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
PLEASURE TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO A VERDICT IN
A SEXUAL DISCRIMINATION CASE IN
SILICON VALLEY THAT'S BEEN
WIDELY WATCHED.
A JURY OF SIX MEN AND SIX WOMEN
FOUND GENDER WAS NOT A FACTOR IN
THE FIRING OF A FORMER JUNIOR
PARTNER AT A LEADING VENTURE
CAPITAL FIRM.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY
FROM OUR PBS STATION, KQED IN
SAN FRANCISCO.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SEX
DISCRIMINATION CASE DREW
ATTENTION TO GENDER IMBALANCE,
WORKING CONDITIS ANOND OUTRIGHT
DISCRIMINATION FOR WOMEN IN THE
TECH WORLD.
ATTORNEYS FOR ELLEN PAO ARGUED
SHE WAS DENIED A PROMOTION AT
KLEINER PERKINS AND KEPT OUT OF
MEETINGS BECAUSE SHE IS A WOMAN.
SHE WAS LATER FIRED IN 2012.
KLEINER PERKINS SAID PAO WAS A
CHRONIC COMPLAINER WHO TWISTED
THE FACTS AND WAS NOT A TEAM
PLAYER.
THE JURY REJECTED ALL OF PAO'S
GENDER DISCRIMINATION CLAIMS.
LATE TODAY, THE JUDGE SENT THE
JURY BACK TO RECONSIDER ONE
CLAIM: WHETHER SHE WAS FIRED IN
RETALIATION AFTER MAKING
COMPLAINTS.
FRAN MAIER IS THE FOUNDER OF
TRUSTEE, AN ONLINE PRIVACY
MANAGEMENT SERVICES PROVIDER AND
CO-FOUNDER OF match.com.
SHE'S BEEN WATCHING THIS CASE
CLOSELY.
ARE YOU SURPRISED BY THE
DECISION?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK FROM THE
BEGINNING EVERYBODY THOUGHT IT
WAS GOING TO BE A TOUGH CASE ONE
WAY OR THE OTHER.
THERE WERE A LOT OF DIFFERENT
KINDS OF ISSUES.
GENDER DISCRIMINATION SUITS ARE
HARD TO PROVE, BUT I AM
DISAPPOINTED AND I THINK MANY
WOMEN IN THE TECH WORLD ARE VERY
DISAPPOINTED TODAY.
>> Sreenivasan: WAS THIS
SYMBOLIC IN SOME MEASURES?
>> THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT OF
STORIES WHO HAVEN'T BEEN
FAVORABLE TO WOMEN IN
TECHNOLOGY.
WE HAVE UBER AND BUBER AND PIT
STARE AND OTHER APPS THAT HAVE
BEEN COMING OUT.
FOR MANY WOMEN, IT WAS SEEN AS
OUR OPPORTUNITY TO TALK ABOUT
THE REALITY OF WORKING IN TECH
COMPANIES, WORKING IN A VENTURE
CAPITAL AND TRYING TO SEE GOOD
THINGS HAPPEN, CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: IS IT JUST
VENTURE CAPITAL OR THE LARGER
TECH WORLD?
>> I THINK SILICON VALLEY SEES
IT AS A LARGER TECH WORLD.
MY EX-COMPANY HAS 42% WOMEN IN
MANAGEMENT AT THE THE DIRECTOR
LEVEL, SO I'M HAPPY ABOUT THAT,
BUT MANY COMPANIES DON'T, AND
EVERY WOMAN I KNOW CAN SAY THAT
THEY CAN -- ELLEN'S EXPERIENCE
RESONATED WITH THEM.
FOR EXAMPLE, NOT BEING INVITED
TO THE SKI TRIP, NOT HAVING A
SEAT AT THE TABLE, OR THE SLIGHT
SEXUAL HARASSMENT OR
DISCRIMINATION.
WE'VE ALL EXPERIENCED IT.
>> Sreenivasan: KLEINER
PERKINS IS ONE OF SILICON
VALLEY'S LARGEST, MOST
WELL-
REPUTED VENTURE CAPITAL FIRMS.
DOES THIS DO SOMETHING TO THEIR
REPUTATION WHERE SHE WINS OR
LOSES?
>> AT THE BEGINNING I SEE
KLEINER PERKINS GETTING THE
SPOTLIGHT.
ONLY 6% OF V.C. PARTNERS ARE
WOMEN SO THAT'S POOR.
V.C.s HAVE A BIG IMPACT ON ALL
START-UP COMPANIES.
THEY SIT ON THEIR BOARDS.
THEY ADVISE THE C.E.O.s.
THEY OBVIOUSLY PROVIDE THE
CAPITAL FOR GROWTH.
IN MANY WAYS, A LOT OF TECH
COMPANIES TAKE THEIR CUES FROM
WHAT THEY SEE IN THE V.C. WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
IDEAS THE TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY OR
SILICON VALLEY IS ABLE TO
PORTRAY IS THIS IS NOT LIKE THE
OLD BOYS' CLUB, THAT YOUR IDEAS
MATTER AND THIS IS WHERE YOU GET
AHEAD.
SEEMS LIKE THIS CASE UNCOVERED
THAT A LITTLE.
>> IT'S ONE OF THE IMPORTANT
THINGS I IS IT HAS SHOWN IT'S VY
MUCH ABOUT WHO YOU KNOW, WHO YOU
WANT TO WORK WITH, WHO LIKES
YOU.
THAT'S WHY IT PERPETUATES THIS
IMAGE.
AMERICAN IN SILICON VALLEY SAYS
HEY, WE'RE GREAT, WE'RE GOING TO
CHANGE THE WORLD.
THAT FAST-GROWING COMPANIES WILL
GET A PATH OR TRYING TO DO THE
THINGS THEY WILL BE DOING.
>> EVEN THOUGH ELLEN PAO LOST,
DOES THIS END UP ELEVATING THE
CONVERSATION IN A WAY?
>> I THINK IT'S PART TO ELEVATE
THE CONVERSATION.
BUT WOMEN NEED TO NOT GET TOO
DISCOURAGED.
WE NEED TO STEP MORE, DO MORE,
FORM MORE OF OUR OWN COMPANIES,
INVEST IN EACH OTHER, FIND
INVESTORS ON SOME OF THE NEW
NETWORKS LIKE PORTFOLIA OR
ASPECT AND MAKE THINGS HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: FRAN MAIER,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW, MILLIONS
IN AFRICA'S MOST POPULOUS
COUNTRY WILL TURN OUT TO VOTE IN
A VERY TIGHT PRESIDENTIAL RACE,
WITH FEARS OF TERRORISM LOOMING.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS ON THE
NIGERIAN ELECTION.
>> Brown: THE TWO FRONT-RUNNERS
ARE COMING DOWN TO THE WIRE, IN
WHAT COULD BE CLOSEST ELECTION
SINCE THE END OF MILITARY RULE
IN 1999.
PRESIDENT GOODLUCK JONATHAN IS
FACING OFF AGAINST FORMER
MILITARY DICTATOR, MUHAMMADU
BUHARI, TO LEAD AFRICA'S LARGEST
ECONOMY, ITS BIGGEST OIL
PRODUCER AND HOME TO 173 MILLION
PEOPLE.
ONE MAN MUST WIN MORE THAN 50%
OF TOMORROW'S VOTE TO AVOID A
RUNOFF
>> Sreenivasan: JONATHAN, A
CHRISTIAN FROM THE SOUTH, HAS
BEEN IN POWER SINCE 2011.
BUHARI, A MUSLIM FROM THE NORTH,
IS A RETIRED GENERAL WHO RULED
NIGERIA IN THE 1980S, FOLLOWING
A MILITARY COUP.
HE IS RUNNING ON AN ANTI-
CORRUPTION PLATFORM.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT HANGING OVER
THE ELECTION, AND SIDELINING
NORMAL, ELECTION-YEAR ISSUES, IS
THE RISE OF BOKO HARAM.
THE ISLAMIC MILITANT GROUP HAS
KILLED MORE THAN A THOUSAND
CIVILIANS THIS YEAR ALONE, AND
CONTROLS PARTS OF NORTHERN
NIGERIA, IT RECENTLY PLEDGED
ALLEGIANCE TO THE SO-CALLED
ISLAMIC STATE.
PRESIDENT JONATHAN CITED THE
THREAT FROM BOKO HARAM WHEN, IN
EARLY FEBRUARY, HE DELAYED THIS
ELECTION SIX WEEKS.
NOW, JONATHAN SAYS THE ARMY HAS
BEAT BACK THE GROUP, EVEN THOUGH
MANY AREAS IN THE NORTH WILL
STILL HAVE NO POLLING STATIONS.
JUST TODAY, THE MILITARY SAID IT
RECAPTURED A NORTHEASTERN TOWN,
AND DESTROYED THE MILITANTS'
HEADQUARTERS IN THE PROCESS.
>> A LOT OF ARMS AND AMMUNITION
HAVE BEEN RECOVERED AND THE
ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS OF
THE TERRORISTS HAS BEEN
COMPLETELY DESTROYED.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT WHETHER IT
IS ACTUALLY THE NIGERIAN
MILITARY MAKING THOSE GAINS IS
AN OPEN QUESTION: THE NIGERIAN
GOVERNMENT REPORTEDLY HAS USED
MERCENARIES FROM SOUTH AFRICA
AND THE FORMER SOVIET UNION TO
PRESS THE OFFENSIVE.
>> Brown: AND JOINING ME TO
DISCUSS TOMORROW'S ELECTION AND
WHAT IT MEANS IS THE NIGERIA
BUREAU CHIEF FOR THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS: MICHELLE FAUL.
WELCOME TO YOU.
SO IS THIS ELECTION NOW ABOUT
THE TWO MEN, THE TWO REGIONS,
THE ECONOMY, BOKO HARAM?
WHAT'S IT COMING DOWN TO?
>> I THINK IT COMES DOWN TO THE
FUTURE OF NIGERIA AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA IN HIS MESSAGE TO THE
NIGERIAN PEOPLE WAS VERY CLEAR
WHEN HE SAID THIS IS A MATTER OF
KEEPING NIGERIA TOGETHER, OF THE
NEED FOR NIGERIANS TO UNITE AND
THERE ARE VERY REAL FEARS OF
VIOLENCE HERE AND THAT'S BECAUSE
THE CONTEST BETWEEN THESE TWO
MEN IS SO INCLEDDABLY CLOSE.
THAT'S A GOOD THING, IN A WAY.
AS THE HUMAN LIFE COMMISSIONER
SAID, IT'S A CAUSE FOR
CELEBRATION.
IT SHOULD BE A SIGN THAT
NIGERIA'S DEMOCRACY IS MATURING,
BUT IN FACT WHAT'S HAPPENED IS,
EVEN BEFORE THE VOTING STARTED,
A CAMPAIGN THAT'S DEGENERATED
INTO THE KIND OF WORST HATE
SPEECH.
>> Brown: HOW MUCH IS THE
OUTCOME DETERMINING THE FIGHT
AGAINST BOKO HARAM AND HOW THAT
PROCEEDS FROM HERE?
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
ARE CRITICS OF PRESIDENT
JONATHAN THEAAT
THIS POINT, THE MILITARY WERE
ABLE TO ANNOUNCE TODAY THAT THEY
HAVE TORN BOKO HARAM OUT OF THE
THREE NORTHEASTERN STATES, THAT
THAT WAS DONE BECAUSE OF
PRESIDENT JONATHAN'S REELECTION
BID AS A POLITICAL PLOY.
THE MILITARY HAVE SAID THAT THEY
WERE WAITING TO GET THE ARMS AND
TRAINING IN ORDER TO MAKE THIS
PUSH AGAINST BOKO HARAM, BUT
EITHER WAY, ON THE EVE OF THE
ELECTION, WE HAVE THIS MAJOR
ANNOUNCEMENT OF VICTORY OVER
BOKO HARAM, ONE BY THE WAY THAT
I DO NOT THINK IS LIKELY, YOU
KNOW, THAT THEY HAVE ABSOLUTELY
DONE AWAY WITH BOKO HARAM.
>> Brown: YOU MEAN BECAUSE
THEY'VE ANNOUNCED SUCH THINGS IN
THE PAST AND IT'S HARD TO VERIFY
AT THIS POINT?
>> WELL, BECAUSE OF THAT AND
ALSO BECAUSE I THINK FROM
SPEAKING WITH ANALYSTS AND
DIPLOMATS AND MY OWN KNOWLEDGE
OF WHAT'S HAPPENING ON THE
GROUND THERE THAT THIS IS NOT
GOING TO BE A CAMPAIGN TO
ANNIHILATE BOKO HARAM, THAT THE
BEST YOU CAN HOME FOR IS YOU
PUSH THEM OUT OF THE TERRITORY
THAT THEY HAVE BEEN HOLDING NOW
AS THE WEST AFRICA FRANCHISE IS
THERE AND THEY'RE LEFT IN A
SITUATION WHERE THEY CONTINUE TO
MAKE HIT AND RUN ATTACKS AND YOU
WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE SUICIDE
BOMBINGS.
>> Brown: WHAT IS THE
POTENTIAL THAT THE VOTE, BECAUSE
IT IS CLOSE, WILL BE
INCONCLUSIVE?
AND THERE IS TALK ABOUT A
POTENTIAL FOR VIOLENCE IN ITS
AFTERMATH.
>> THERE ARE GREAT FEARS.
I MEAN, THE PRE-ELECTION
VIOLENCE HAS BEEN UNPRECEDENTED.
DOZENS OF PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED AND, IF YOU REMEMBER,
AFTER 2011 ELECTIONS, AGAIN, THE
SAME TWO CONTENDERS.
PRESIDENT JONATHAN WON, THE
NORTH WENT UP IN FLAMES, RIOTS,
AND OVER 1,000 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED THEN, AND THIS IS MUCH
MORE CONTENTIOUS.
NIGERIA'S POLITICAL LANDSCAPE
HAS JUST BEEN TRANSFORMED.
TWO YEARS AGO THE MAIN POLITICAL
PARTIES CAME TOGETHER AND FORMED
AN OPPOSITION, NOT JUST FORMED
AN OPPOSITION, THEY'VE UNITED
BEHIND ONE CANDIDATE WHICH, FOR
THE FIRST TIME IN THE HISTORY OF
NIGERIA, SINCE INDEPENDENCE 1960
FROM BRITAIN, BUT FOR THE FIRST
TIME IN HISTORY YOU HAVE THE
POSSIBILITY OF AN ACTUAL
DEMOCRATIC CHANGE OF POWER.
NEVER HAPPENED BEFORE.
>> Brown: MICHELLE FAUL,
ASSOCIATED PRESS IN NIGERIA,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, SHARKS.
JUST SAYING THE WORD CAN SEND
SHIVERS DOWN THE SPINES OF SOME,
BUT AS HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS,
STUDYING THEIR SKIN COULD BE KEY
TO FIGHTING DISEASE.
AND IS ON THE CUTTING EDGE OF
THE LARGER PUSH ANNOUNCED AT THE
WHITE HOUSE TODAY TO CONTAIN
SUPERBUGS.
IT'S PART OF OUR BREAKTHROUGHS
SERS ONIE INNOVATION AND
INVENTION.
>> Sreenivasan: IN A COLORADO
EABORATORY, 1,000 MILES FROM TH
OCEAN, A TEAM OF SCIENTISTS IS
TRYING TO USE THE SKIN OF SHARK
TO SAVE LIVES OF HUMANS.
THE COMPANY HAS INVENTED A
MANMADE MATERIAL THAT LIKE THE
SKIN OF A SHARK REPELS DEADLY
BACTERIA.
>> WE USE TEXTURES INSPIRED BY
THE SKIN OF SHARKS TO CONTROL
BACTERIA ON SURFACES.
NO CHEMICALS, NO ANTIBIOTICS, NO
HEAVY METALS.
IT'S THE SHAPE OF THE SURFACE
THAT THE BACTERIA DON'T LIKE.
>> Sreenivasan: SCIENTISTS
SHOW HOW THE BACTERIA HAS
TROUBLE ATTACHING AND GROWING TO
THE SHARK PATTERN.
>> WE COMPOSE A SMOOTH NEXT TO A
SHARK SURFACE.
THERE ARE HUNDREDS MORE BACTERIA
ON A SMOOTH SURFACE.
>> Sreenivasan: STEVE AND HIS
TEAM HOPE TO BRING SHARKLET INTO
HOSPITALS.
>> WE HAVE DIFFERENT FILMS.
JUST PEEL AND STICK.
>> Sreenivasan: THEY'VE
CREATED FILM TO BE ATTACHED TO
HIGH-TOUCH AREAS LIKE HANDRAILS
AND DOOR KNOBS.
>> 2 MILLION PEOPLE A YEAR GET
HOSPITAL CORRIDOR INFECTIONS,
MEANING THEY WENT IN FOR MINOR
SURGERY AND ENDED UP GETTING AN
INFECTION THEY DIDN'T BRING WITH
THEM.
OF THOSE, WE SPEND ABOUT
$30 BILLION A YEAR TREATING THE
INFECTIONS AND 100,000 PEOPLE A
YEAR DIE FROM THE INFECTIONS.
>> Woodruff: A SUPERBUG
OUTBREAK AT A L.A. HOSPITAL, TWO
DIED.
>>reen Sivasan: RECENT NEWS
ABOUT SUPERBUGS BROUGHT URGENCY
TO THE ISSUE.
A PROFESSOR OF ENGINEERING AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA WAS
ASKED BY THE NAVY 14 YEARS AGO
TO KEEP BARNCALS FROM ATTACHING
TO THEIR SHIPS.
>> IF I WAS DOING SOME
EVALUATION FORCE OFFICE O OFFICL
RESEARCH, I CAME UP WITH THE
IDEA OF NURSE SHARKS, AND I SAID
THEY DON'T GET BARNCALS ON THEM
BUT A SHIP SITTING IN A HARBOR
ON A DOCK WILL HAVE THAT SAME
CURRENT AND THEY GET BARNCALS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN BRENNAN
MIMICKED THE SURFACE TOPOGRAPHY
IN HIS LAB --
>> LO AND BEHOLD THE SHARK'S
SKIN IS EFFECTIVE AGAINST GREEN
AGOY.
>> Sreenivasan: BRENNAN
BELIEVES THE THE TEXTURE ON A
SHARK CREATES AN UNSTABLE
ENVIRONMENT FOR ORG NIVMENT.
>> PLACES THAT SHOULD GET
CLEANED MORE BUT DON'T.
>> Sreenivasan: THE COMPANY
ISSUED A STUDY SHOWING 94% LESS
BACTERIA ATTACHED TO THE
SURFACES WITH THE MICROSCOPIC
SHARK PATTERN.
THIS HELD TRUE WITH MRSA.
>> SOME BACTERIA ARE RIASSISTANT
TO DRUGS AND ANTIBIOTICS.
WE DON'T WANT THE TIERIO TO
ATTACH.
IF THEY DON'T ATTACH, THEY DIE.
WHETHER RESISTANT OR NOT, THEY
DON'T LIKE OUR SURFACE.
>> Sreenivasan: OF COURSE, A
MUCH SIMPLER WAY TO CONTROL THE
TRANSFER OF BACTERIA IS DILIGENT
HAND WASHING.
WHETHER HOSPITALS WILL WANT TO
SPEND MONEY ON TECHNOLOGY FOR A
PROBLEM THAT CAN BE ADDRESSED
WITH STEELER WASHING PROCEDURES
MAY BE A CHALLENGE FOR THE
COMPANY.
>> I FOUND THIS WORKING ON TPA
IN THE BACKGROUND.
>> Reporter: DR. SANDY IS AN
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO MEDICAL
SCHOOL.
>> WE FIND HAND CONTACT ROOM TO
ROOM IS OFTEN A MEANS OF
TRANSMISSION.
SO THE HAND CAN BE THE SOURCE OF
ALL EVIL AS WE DEAL WITH DEVICES
THAT WE USE TO TREAT PATIENTS
LIKE CATHETERS THAT BECOME A
PORTAL FOR INFECTION FOR THE
PATIENTS.
>PATIENTS.
>> Sreenivasan: DR. SANDY SAYS
NOTHING SHOULD REPLACE RIGOROUS
HAND WASHING BUT WHEN TIME IS
CRITICAL IT CAN BE FORGOTTEN
WHENCHTS IT'S A MATTER OF LIFE
OR DEATH PEOPLE WILL BY NATURAL
INSTINCT JUNK IN AND ACT.
>> Sreenivasan: SANDY RUNS THE
WELLS CENTER WHERE STUDENTS
PRACTICE ON MANNEQUINS.
>> WE'RE ADJUSTING VITAL SIGNS,
LAB ABNORMALITIES.
THE COURSE OF THE PATIENT,
DEPENDING ON WHAT IS DONE TO THE
PATIENT DURING THAT SCENARIO.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST FALL
SANDY CONDUCTED A TEST WITH THE
SHARKLET ON SURFACES.
>> WE HAD A COMMON BACTERIA ON
THE LEG OF THE PATIENT SO THEY
STARTED WITH A TOUCH OF THEIR
LEG --
>> Sreenivasan: SANDY
SIMULATED A PULMONARY EMBOLISM
AND CARDIAC ARREST.
THE SAME SCENARIO THE GRADUATE
STUDENTS WERE GIVEN ON THE DAY
WE VISITED.
>> THE PATIENT BECAME CRITICALLY
ILL, NEEDED A DEFIBRILLATOR.
THEY GRABBED THE CART AND PUSHED
THE BUTTON.
WE PROMPT THEM TO TOUCH THE
CERTAIN PLACES IN A GIVEN
SEQUENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SURFACES
COVERED WITH THE SHARKLET FILM
HAD FEWER GERMS.
>> THERE WAS A 13-FOLD DECREASE
IN BACTERIA THAT TRANSFERRED ON
TO THE SURFACES.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE THE
COMMERCIAL APPEAL OF SHARKLET
SURFACES REMAINS UNPROVEN THE
COMPANY HAS WON SUPPORT FROM THE
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH.
THEY AWARDED THEM $1.2 MILLION
TO FURTHER DEVELOP THE
TECHNOLOGY.
HARI SREENIVASAN FOR THE PBS
"NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS, THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME GENTLEMEN.
LET'S TALK ABOUT HARRY REID.
MARK, HE ANNOUNCED HE'S RETIRING
BUT NOT TILL THE END OF NEXT
YEAR, BUT THIS IS AFTER BEING
THE FACE, THE LEADER AND FACE OF
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN THE
SENATE.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR
DEMOCRATS?
>> WELL, FIRST, JUST A QUICK
WORD ABOUT HARRY REID.
I MEAN, HARRY REID WAS NOT BORN
TO PRIVILEGE OR ADVANTAGE.
THERE'S NO PEDIGREE THERE.
THERE ARE EIGHT COUNTIES IN
NEVADA WHERE PROSTITUTION WAS
LEGAL AND HARRY REID LIVED IN
ONE OF THEM.
HIS MOTHER TOOK IN THE LAUNDRY
FROM THE LOCAL BROTHEL.
HIS DAD WAS A MINER WHO HAD A
COMMITTED SUICIDE.
HE WENT TO LAW SCHOOL NIGHTS,
WORKED AS A CAPITOL POLICEMAN UP
ON CAPITOL HILL.
TOTALLY SELF-MADE MAN, WHICH
SOME SAY IS THE CREATOR OF GREAT
RESPONSIBILITY, BUT HE WAS SUCH
AS NAILS, DETERMINED, YOU COULD
TAKE HIS WORD TO THE BANK.
YOU COULD TALK TO ANYBODY ON THE
HILL, THAT WAS THE THING ABOUT
HARRY REID.
HE WAS INCREDIBLY DETERMINED,
TOUGH, NO HOLDS BARRED.
YOU WANTED HIM ON YOUR SIDE IF
YOU WERE IN A FOXHOLE.
NOT SMOOTH AND NOT SUNDAY
MORNING CAT SHOW, NOT A CHARMER,
SHORT ON CHARISMA, BUT I WOULD
SAY AN EFFECTIVE LEADER AND HE
RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: AND HE'S STILL
THERE FOR ANOTHER YEAR AND A
HALF.
>> WELL, AND, IN FAIRNESS, LET'S
SAY THERE IS NO ObamaCare,
THERE IS NO AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
WITHOUT NANCY PELOSI AS SPEAKER
AND HARRY REID AS LEADER.
THERE'S NO DODD FRANK WITHOUT
PELOSI AND REID, THERE IS NO
$800 BILLION STIMULUS TO SAVE
THE ECONOMY WITHOUT REID AND
PELOSI.
>> Woodruff: HE HAD HIS
DETRACTORS.
>> HE WAS ROOTED IN SEARCH
LIGHT.
I HEARD HIM SAY HE PLAYED ON A
FOOTBALL IN HIGH SCHOOL BUT ONLY
98 YARDS LONG.
I NEVER UNDERSTOOD THAT.
NOTHING BUT GROUND THERE BUT
STILL --
(LAUGHTER)
SO HE TALKED ABOUT THAT.
HE'S BEEN HERE LONG TIME AND THE
GOOD PART IS -- THE EFFECTIVE
PART, IT WAS A DIVERSE,
DEMOCRATIC PARTY AND KEEPING IT
TOGETHER WAS AN ACCOMPLISHMENT.
THE BAD SIDE THE DETRACTORS WILL
SAY HE WAS SOMETIMES EXTREMELY
LOOSE AND SOMETIMES EXTREMELY
BIZARRE WITH THE THINGS HE SAID
AND COULD BE IN MY VIEW OVERLY
TOUGH, RASH AND CRUEL EVEN, AND
SOMETIMES THE PUBLIC PROJECTIONS
WEREN'T ALL THAT ONE WOULD WANT
IN THE STATESMAN.
BUT I'VE ALWAYS HAD A SOFT SPOT
FOR HIM IN PART BECAUSE HE'S A
BIG WATCHER OF THE SHOW BUT ALSO
BECAUSE EH --
>> WE'RE ALWAYS GLAD TO HEAR
THAT.
>> BUT, LISTEN, THERE'S AN
AUTHENTICITY TO THE GUY.
>> BUT WHAT DOES IT MEAN, MARK,
FOR THE DEMOCRATS?
YOU SAY REID CAME RIGHT OUT AND
SAID HE WANTS CHUCK SCHUMER OF
NEW YORK TO BE HIS SUCCESSOR, AS
THE LEADER OF THE PARTY.
HOW WILL THINGS CHANGE AFTER?
>> REID AND SCHUMER WERE AS
CLOSE AS TWO PEOPLE CAN BE --
NOT TO AROUSE THE SUSPICIONS OF
THEIR SPOUSES, BUT --
(LAUGHTER)
THEY TALKED TOGETHER FIVE OR SIX
TIMES A DAY.
HE WENT TO CHUCK SCHUMER AND
SCHUMER WAS INDOUBTEDLY THE
FAVORITE.
THE QUESTION WHETHER THE WOMEN
IN THE SENATE WILL MOUNT A
CANDIDACY, REPRESENTATION
WHETHER PATTY MURRAY IS PERHAPS
THE MOST LIKELY.
BUT VOTES INSIDE A BOT BODY ARE
NEXT TO IMPOSSIBLE TO PREDICT.
I REMEMBER WHEN BOB BYRD UPSET
TED KENNEDY AS DEMOCRATIC WHIP
AND TED KENNEDY SAID AFTERWARDS
I THANK THE 32 SENATORS WHO
COMMITTED TO VOTE FOR ME AND THE
27 WHO DID.
SCHUMER IS THE FAVORITE.
>> Woodruff: JUST BECAUSE HE
NAMED SCHUMER DOESN'T MEAN IT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> NO, EVERYONE GETS A VOTE.
SCHUMER SEEMS SUPERFICIALLY MORE
IDEOLOGICAL, MAYBE FURTHER TO
THE LEFT, BUT I THINK SCHUMER IS
PRACTICAL AS WELL.
IN SOME SENSES, IF THERE IS EVER
A POSSIBILITY FOR BIPARTISAN
COMPROMISE, I THINK SCHUMER IS
QUITE OUT THERE AND HIS VERBAL
STYLE IS CERTAINLY OUT THERE.
I THINK HE WOULD BE CAPABLE OF
QUITE SURPRISING COMPROMISE ON
OCCASION.
SO IF THAT COMES ALONG, I THINK
SCHUMER WILL BE GOOD AT THAT.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER SENATOR,
FRESHMAN REPUBLICAN TED CRUZ OF
TEXAS WHO BECAME THE FIRST
CANDIDATE TO OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCE
HIS CANDIDACY.
HE DIDN'T ANNOUNCE AN
EXPLORATORY COMMITTEE.
HE SAID I'M IN IT AND RUNNING
FOR THE REPUBLICAN NOMINATION.
SMART TO BE OUT THERE SO EARLY
AHEAD OF EVERYBODY EL THE PLUSEE
MINUSES?
>> THINK ABOUT HOW PEOPLE
ANNOUNCED IN 2008 -- SOME IN
2012 -- EMAIL, ON YOUTUBE, I
MEAN, THIS WAS A SHOW OF SHOWS.
THIS WAS ED SULLIVAN.
THIS WAS DEAN MARTIN.
>> Woodruff: LIBERTY
UNIVERSITY.
>> LIBERATE UNIVERSITY, 10,000
PEOPLE IN THE ROUND, NO NOTES,
NO TELEPROMPTER, JUST A SPEECH
THAT TED CRUZ HAS BEEN
REHEARSING FOR 18 YEARS, REPLETE
WITH PAUSES AT THE MOMENT HE'S
TRYING TO THINK OF THE NEXT
WORD, BUT, YOU KNOW, I THINK A
TERRIFIC PERFORMANCE.
I THINK HE WILL BE A FORMIDABLE
DEBATER.
UNLIKE THE TWO PREVIOUS TEXAS
STATEWIDE REPUBLICANS GEORGE W.
BUSH AND RICK PERRY,HE  WON'T
STUMBLE OVER HIS WORDS, HE WON'T
FRACTURE HIS SYNTAX AND WILL
TAKE A NO HOLDS BAR APPROACH.
HE DIDN'T COME TO COMPROMISE,
HE'S NOT A COALITION BUILDER,
HE'S GOING TO FIGHT FOR
PRINCIPLE AND I THINK HE COULD
MOVE THE DEBATE TO THE RIGHT AND
I THINK THAT'S A REAL CONCERN
ARE THE FORCE OF HIS INTELLECT
AND PERSONALITY.
>> PICKING LIBERTY, A CHRISTIAN
SCHOOL IS A SIGN HE'LL RUN TO BE
THE INHERITER OF THE EVANGELICAL
VOTE.
HE COULD BE THAT.
HE'S GOT SOME COMPETITION, BEN
CARSON, SCOTT WALKER, OTHERS,
BUT THAT'S A POWERFUL VOTE
ESPECIALLY IN SOME OF THE EARLY
CAUCUS STATES.
HE'S A NEW STYLE OF POLITICIAN
WITH NO HISTORY OF GOVERNANCE,
REALLY.
NO EFFECTIVENESS AS A
LEGISLATURE, BUT A GOOD MEDIA
PERSONALITY AND SPOKESPERSON.
TO ME, IT'S A BIT OF POLITICS IS
SHOW BUSINESS AND I DON'T THINK
HE HAS MUCH CHANCE IN PART
BECAUSE IT'S SUCH A CROWDED
FIELD, IN MANY WAYS A MORE
QUALIFIED FIELD AND I DON'T
THINK HE RADIATES SINCERITY.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE PLENTY
CONSERVATIVE BUT THEY DON'T FIND
HIM THAT SINCERE, SO HE'S SO
SMART HE'S THINKING IT ALL
THROUGH, HE'S VERY POLISHED, BUT
A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK IT'S SO
CLEVERLY THOUGHT THROUGH,
THEY'RE NOT QUITE COMFORTABLE.
SO WILL HE AROUSE PEOPLE --
PASSIONS THE WAY SOME WHO STEAM
MORE SINCERE?
I'M MORE ACCEPTABLE.
>> Woodruff: CONVENTIONAL
WISDOM IS THERE ARE TWO CONTESTS
IN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY, ONE IS
THE CONSERVATIVE BANNER, CARRIER
AND THE ORTHO, MARK, FOR THE
MAIN STREAM REPUBLICAN.
IS AT JTHUST TOO SIMPLE A WAY TO
LOOK AT THIS?
>> YES, JUDY, BUT THAT'S ALL
RIGHT.
THE TEA PARTY WHICH IS
ANTI-GOVERNMENT CONSERVATIVES,
THEN THE CULTURAL, MORAL
RELIGIOUS CONSERVATIVES.
THERE'S AN OVERLAP, BUT THEY'RE
DISTINCT.
THERE IS THE GOVERNING
REPUBLICANS, THOSE WHO REALLY
THINK, GEE, IT'S IMPORTANT TO BE
ABLE TO GOVERN.
AND THEN THERE ARE SORT OF THE
WALL STREET BUSINESS
REPUBLICANS.
I THINK THERE'S ALMOST FOUR
DIFFERENT GROUPS.
I WOULD SAY THIS ABOUT TED CRUZ,
HE STANDS IN TOTAL OPPOSITE TO
WHAT HAPPENED THIS WEEK IN
CONGRESS.
WE HAVE SPENT MONTHS, YEARS JUST
KICKING THE DAY LIGHTS OUT OF
CONGRESS FOR DOING NOTHING AND
THIS WEEK WE SAW AN ACT ON
GROWNUPS FROM JOHN BOEHNER AND
NANCY PELOSI AND THEY PASSED A
MEDICARE DOCUMENT THAT 17 TIMES
IN TEN YEARS THEY'VE PATCHED
THIS, KICKED THE CAN DOWN THE
ROAD, THIS TIME THEY DID IT AND
LED THEIR CAUCUSES.
YOU KNOW, WE SAY WE WANT THIS.
TED CRUZ GETS CHEERS FOR SAYING
HE WON'T COMPROMISE AND PELOSI
AND BOEHNER GET VERY FEW KUDOS
FOR BEING GROWNUPS AND SHOWING
INITIATIVE.
>> Woodruff: FIGURING OUT WHAT
DOCTORS GET FROM MEDICARE.
>> TED CRUZ IS PICK A FIGHT AND
ANYBODY WHO ISN'T ON HIS SIDE IS
A RHINO REPUBLICAN ONLY.
THAT MAY WORK FOR HIM.
I HAVE 32 CATEGORIES OF
.ANDIDATES
THERE ARE 497 OF THEM AT THIS
COUNT.
(LAUGHTER)
I THINK THE CATEGORIES ARE A
LITTLE OVERBLOWN WHEN THE VOTERS
ARE NOT AWARE OF THE
DISTINCTIONS WE MEEK.
THEY'RE LOOKING AT PERSONALITY.
I THINK CHARACTER AND
PERSONALITY ARE GOLDEN.
YOU LOOK AT SCOTT WALKER, SEEMS
ATTRACTIVE.
MARCO RUBIO IS A SMART,
ATTRACTIVE PERSON.
YOU'VE GOT TO BE WITH THE GUY
FOR FOUR YEARS.
I'M NOT SURE PEOPLE WILL WANT
THAT.
>> BILL COHEN, FORMER SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE, CONGRESSMAN, MAYOR,
SAID BEFORE THEY VOTE FOR YOU,
THEY HAVE TO LIKE YOU.
I THINK THAT --
>> Woodruff: MAKES SENSE.
IT REALLY DOES FOR PRESIDENT.
IT'S A PERSONAL CHOICE.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS UNFAIR TO
ASK YOU BOTH ABOUT THIS, YEMEN,
WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON, WE HAVE
BEEN COVERING IT ALL WEEK.
WE NOW SEE THE SAUDIS INVOLVED
THERE HITTING THESE SHIA REBELS,
THE HOUTHIS.
I GUESS MY VERY QUICK QUESTION
TO BOTH OF YOU IS JOHN McCAIN
YESTERDAY ACCUSED THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION OF JUST NOT
HANGVI ITS EYE ON THE BALL, NOT
BEING ENGAGED.
IS THIS ONE WHERE THE U.S.
SHOULD BE MORE INVOLVED, MARK?
>> WELL, THIS IS THE DILEMMA WE
FACE.
DO WE STAND OUTSIDE AND WATCH
I.S.I.S. OR WHATEVER ITS
INCARNATION IS UNDER WHATEVER
RELIGIOUS BANNER IT MIGHT BE
TAKE OVER AND DISABLE?
I MEAN, THESE ARE
NON-FUNCTIONING STATES THAT WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT.
OR DO WE ENGAGE AND THEN INCUR
THE WRATH AND THE ENPITY AS WELL
AS THE CASUALTIES?
AND I THINK THIS IS IT.
I MEAN, IS THERE AN OVERARCHING
STRATEGY, A COHERENT POLICY?
I HAVEN'T SEEN IT, JUDY, BUT I
DON'T PRETEND TO BE A DETECTIVE.
>> WE'RE A VICTIM OF
CIRCUMSTANCE.
WE'RE REACTING TO WHATEVER IT IS
THAT'S HAPPENING, MOST WHICH WE
DO NOT FORESEE.
WE'RE FIGHTING IRAN HERE,
NEGOTIATING WITH IRAN OVER
THERE.
IT'S CASE BY CASE.
THAT'S A PART OF THE STRATEGY
THAT'S UNREALISTIC.
THE THE PREDENSIT'S STRATEGY IS
TO TURN IRAN INTO A MEMBER OF
THE COMMUNITY OF NATIONS IN SOME
WAY AND USE THAT AS A PIVOT TO
STABLE A's THE REGION, I THINK
THAT'S UNREALISTIC.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE BUT
WHEN COMPARED TO THE REST OF THE
WORLD LEAVES US WITHOUT
STRATEGY.
SO WE'RE REACTING.
WE NEED A STRATEGY THAT TAKES
ACUTE AWARENESS OF OUR LIMITS
HERE.
>> Woodruff: AND SPEAKING OF
WHICH WE'RE LOOKING AT THE
DEADLINE FOR THESE IRAN NUCLEAR
TALKS NEXT TUESDAY.
>> WE ARE.
WE HAVE NO GOVERNMENT IN
BAGHDAD.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO SAFE TO FOR NEXT WEEK.
>> OKAY.
>> Woodruff: PLEASE COME BACK,
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IT'S WIDELY
CONSIDERED ONE OF THE
MASTERWORKS OF CONTEMPORARY
DANCE, AND TONIGHT ON "GREAT
PERFORMANCES" VIEWERS HAVE A
CHANCE TO SEE FOR THEMSELVES.
AND AGAIN TO JEFFREY BROWN, WHO
HAS OUR PREVIEW, WITH
CHOREOGRAPHER MARK MORRIS.
(SINGING)
>> TICHTS LONGEST DANCE,
PROBABLY TWO OR THREE TIMES
LONGER THAN ANYTHING WE'D EVER
DONE.
I HAD A WONDERFUL SITUATION.
IT'S ALL I WORKED ON FOR SEVERAL
MONTHS.
IT PROBABLY TOOK ABOUT THREENTHT
WORKING EVERY DAY WITH EVERYONE
KNOCKING THEMSELVES OUT.
>> Brown: EVERYTHING ABOUT THE
DANCE IS GRAND.
IT'S SWEEP OF MOVEMENT AND
COLOR.
IT'S 32 SCENES BROUGHT TO LIFE
BY 2 DOZEN DANCERS.
IT'S MUSIC, ORCHESTRA, VOICES
WRITTEN IN 1740 BY HANDEL.
>> I PRETTY MUCH IMMEDIATELY
KNEW THAT I WAS EVENTUALLY GOING
TO HAVE TO DEAL WITH IT AND MAKE
IT INTO AN EVENING OF DANCING.
(OPERA SINGING)
>> Brown: IN YEARS AGO,
MARKING THE DANCE'S 25t
25th ANNIVERSARY, "NEW YORK
TIMES" CRITIC ALICE TEAR
MACAULAY NOTED IT SEEMED A
MASTER PIECE IN ITS OPENING
SEASON.
25 YEARS ON, IT'S ALSO A
CLASSIC.
BUT SAYS MARK MORRIS NOW, IT
WASN'T EASY.
>> I HAVE BEEN PROBABLY FUN
DURING THE REHEARSAL PROCESS
THAN DURING THIS ONE.
>> Brown: YOU'VE BEEN MORE
FUN?
>> I'VE BEEN MORE FUN.
I FREAD KEOUT.
>> Brown: MORRIS STARTED HIS
DANCE COMPANY IN 1980 WHEN HE
WAS JUST 24 AND DANCED HIMSELF
IN MANY OF HIS WORKS TILL RECENT
YEARS.
WHILE ALLEGRO EARLY ON CEMENTED
HIS PLACE AS ONE OF THE ERA'S
LEADING CHOREOGRAPHERS AND
SHOWCASED THE ELEMENTS THAT HAVE
COME TO CHARACTERIZE HIS WORK.
(SINGING)
THERE'S THE BEAUTIFUL SYMMETRY
OF MOMENT IN SEEN HERE IN WHAT'S
CALLED "THE LADIES DANCE."
THERE'S ALSO THE SHEER FUN.
COMEDY, IF YOU WILL, IN THE
"STUPID MEN DANCE."
(SINGING)
THE ORIGINAL NAME OF MILTON'S
POEMS, THE HAPPY ONE AND THE
THOUGHTFUL ONE, INSPIRED MORRIS'
TWO SIDES OF LIFE AND HE PLAYS
WITH THAT REALITY THROUGHOUT THE
DANCE.
>> IT'S NOT LIKE BIPOLAR, IT'S
MORE LIKE HALF FULL AND HALF
EMPTY KIND OF THING.
SO IT'S NOT CHARACTERS.
IT'S PEOPLE.
IT'S COMMUNITIES, IT'S
CIVILIZATION, IT'S INDIVIDUALS
AND IT ALSO SITES MANY, MANY
EXAMPLES OF NATURAL LIFE, OF
FORESTS AND ANIMALS AND BIRDS
AND CITIES.
IN ORDER TO GET ALL OF THAT
ACROSS, I WAS COMPELLED TO MAKE
MY DANCERS BEHAVE AS NOT JUST
PEOPLE BUT ANIMALS AND
SHRUBBERIES AND FIREPLACES.
SO THE DANCERS ARE LIVING DECOR
AND THEY'RE WONDERFUL
CHARACTERS.
COMPLICATED.
>> Brown: YOU LIKE THE IDEA OF
TURNING NEW DANCERS INTO ALL
THOSE THINGS.
>> EXACTLY.
THEY'RE VERY IMAGINATIVE AND
VERY VERSATILE.
>> Brown: IN 2001, MORRIS'
COMPANY MOVED INTO A PERMANENT
HOME IN BROOKLYN.
A GRAND SPACE FOR REHEARSALS,
PERFORMANCES AND CLASSES THAT
ATTRACT REMO THAN 8,000
STUDENTS, YOUNG AND OLD.
MEAN WHILE, THE COMPANY ITSELF
CONTINUES TO EVOLVE, INCLUDING
THE GROUP PERFORMING IN THE TV
PRODUCTION OF LA ALLEGRA.
>> NOW THERE ISN'T ONE PERSON
WHO WAS IN THE FIRST
PERFORMANCE.
A LOT ARE STILL GOOD FRIENDS OF
MINE BUT THE DANCE KEEPS MOVING
ON AND THE PERSONNEL CHANGES AS
IT GOES BUT THE STEPS DON'T
CHANGE.
>> Brown: SO NOW IT'S A
MULTI-GENERATIONAL DANCE.
>> EXACTLY.
SO THEY ALL WILL BE HOME CRYING
A BIT IN FRONT OF THEIR TV SETS
WITH BEAUTIFUL MEMORIES OF
HAVING DONE IT.
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL PIECE.
I CAN'T RESI TESTLLING YOU THAT.
>> Brown: WHAT HABIT FOR YOU,
CHANGES IN 25-PLUS YEARS?
>> NONE.
ZERO.
NO DIFFERENCE EXCEPT -- NOW, IF
I DROP SOMETHING ON THE FLOOR, I
WAIT TILL I DROP TWO MORE THINGS
BEFORE I PICK IT UP.
THAT'S ALL.
I SPEND LESS TIME GETTING UP OFF
THE GROUND THAN I USED TO.
>> Brown: IN MARK MORRIS'
GRAND PIECE, OF COURSE, IT'S THE
DANCERS WHO DO ALL THE WORK NOW.
THE FULL PERFORMANCE ON "GREAT
PERFORMANCES" CAN BE SEEN
TONIGHT.
FROM NEW YORK, THE PBS
"NewsHour", I'M JEFFYRE BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
AUTHORITIES IN GERMANY SAID
THERE WAS EVIDENCE THE
CO-PILOT WHO CRASHED A FLIGHT
CARRYING 150 PEOPLE INTO THE
ALPS ON TUESDAY WAS HIDING AN
ILLNESS FROM HIS EMPLOYERS.
GERMAN MEDIA REPORTED THE 27-
YEAR-OLD SUFFERED FROM
DEPRESSION.
AND, LATE TODAY, THE HIGHEST
COURT IN ITALY OVERTURNED MURDER
CONVICTIONS AGAINST AMERICAN
AMANDA KNOX AND HER ITALIAN EX-
BOYFRIEND.
BOTH MAINTAINED THEIR INNOCENCE
IN THE DEATH OF A BRITISH
STUDENT IN 2007.
THISULIN RG ENDS THEIR LONG
LEGAL BATTLE.
NOW, AN UPDATE ON A STORY WE
BROUGHT YOU EARLIER THIS YEAR.
IT WAS A CONVERSATION WITH AN
EDITOR AT THE ONLINE HUFFINGTON
POST ABOUT A REPORT THEY DID ON
HEROIN USE IN KENTUCKY.
THIS WEEK, STATE LEGISLATORS
THERE PASSED A NEW LAW FOCUSED
ON TREATING ADDICTS, NOT JAILING
THEM.
AND ENCOURAGING MEDICALLY
ASSISTED TREATMENTS LIKE THE
DRUG SUBOXONE.
THE NEW LEGISLATION WAS SPURRED
BY THE HUFFINGTON POST'S REPORT.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: WE GO INSIDE CAPITOL
HILL, TO CAPTURE HARRY REID'S
SURPRISE RETIREMENT.
WE SURVEY THE CONTINUING FALLOUT
FROM AMERICA'S LONGEST WAR, AS
NEW PRESIDENT ASHRAF GHANI COMES
TO WASHINGTON, AND FORMER
CAPTIVE BOWE BERGDAHL IS ACCUSED
OF DESERTION.
AND WE TAKE STOCK OF TED CRUZ,
THE ONLY OFFICIAL CANDIDATE FOR
PRESIDENT.
THAT'S TONIGHT ON WASHINGTON
WEEK.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY, A REPORT ON
PATIENTS FACING LIFE OR DEATH
DECISIONS, AND THE DOCTORS WHO
ARE REQUIRED TO TALK TO THEM
ABOUT IT.
>> IT IS ABOUT GRANDMA
CONTROLLING THE PLUG.
GRANDMA OR HER DESIGNEE CONTROLS
THE PLUG, AND THAT'S THE SYSTEM
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE.
>> THE DOCTOR IS AT THE
FOREFRONT OF THE NEW NATIONAL
MOVEMENT TO MAKE TALKING ABOUT
DEATH PUBLIC POLICY.
HE CHAIRED THE EXPERT MEDICAL
PANEL THAT HELPED LEAD TO NEW
MASSACHUSETTS REGULATIONS, THE
FIRST IN THE NATION WHICH TOOK
EFFECT IN DECEMBER, MANDATING
THAT HEALTH FACILITIES FROM
HOSPITALS TO ASSISTED LIVING
COMMUNITIES TELL TERMINALLY ILL
PATIENTS THEIR END-OF-LIFE
OPTIONS.
>> THE FULL RANGE OF THEIR
CHOICES FROM KEEP ME AL MEDICINE
CAN DO THAT, TO I JUST WANT TO
BE HOME WITH MY FAMILY WITH
HOSPICE, TO ANYTHING IN BETWEEN
OR ANY SEQUENCE.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S TOMORROW
NIGHT.
NIGHT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY, WHEN WE TALK WITH
KEN BURNS AND DR. SIDDHARTHA
MUKHERJEE ABOUT THEIR SWEEPING
DOCUMENTARY, "CANCER: THE
EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES."
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.